Federated identity.
Now federated identity, also called single sign-on,
is a complex subject,
so we can't treat it to too much depth due to our
scope constraints in this course,
but when you look at it from a bird's eye perspective it
becomes a little easier to understand,
because I can essentially guarantee you that you use SSO
even if you're not consciously aware of it.
Here's the problem that we're trying to solve in a hybrid cloud environment.
Your users will log on to the Active Directory domain
using their username and password.
In Active directory you have what's called the user principle name,
that is the user's name @, and then their Active Directory DNS domain,
and oftentimes they match to their email address,
but not always.
Bottom line is,
the user signs into his or her computer at the beginning of the day,
and they don't have to authenticate again against any
local resources in that environment.
Things change when we go to Software as a Service apps in the cloud,
for example, Office 365 which uses Azure Active Directory as its identity store,
you can use Microsoft Azure to build your own Software as a Service apps,
again, relying upon Azure AD.
So what a lot of businesses will do is go one of many
approaches to simplify authentication to cloud apps.
The worst-case scenario is what you see on the slide right now where the
user has two totally separate sets of credentials.
That's never a good experience,
especially if the passwords are different or otherwise fall out of sync.
What you want is this,
where you're on-premises identity matches the identity up in the cloud.
We're concerning ourselves with the Microsoft cloud here,
so that's Azure Active Directory.
And there's many ways to go,
you can actually replicate or copy the accounts to Azure AD,
but identity federation goes one step beyond,
and I want to discuss that in a little bit more detail.
With federation, you have the user to repeat one more time,
log on once to on-premises Active Directory,
and they need access through Azure Active Directory to a cloud application.
First, the authentication request is from the user to the SaaS app,
maybe the user opens up their web browser and tries
to access their Office 365 assets.
Instead of being prompted for credentials,
they're passed back, this should happen seamlessly under the hood,
back to their source of authority, which is on-premises Active Directory.
Active Directory,
if you've configured it with an SSO solution like
Active Directory Federation Services,
AD can send a token representing the user back to Azure AD,
and Azure AD actually doesn't do any authentication of its own,
it trusts that accounts that have been properly validated on the
other end of that channel are who they claim to be,
and then access is granted to the SaaS app.
That's the SSO scenario.
Now how does that affect us in Windows 10 you're wondering?
Well, let's keep going.
This is a simple workflow.
If you're logging into Microsoft Azure at portal.
azure.
com, you're prompted for credentials,
and this could be an Azure AD native account,
or it could be a Microsoft account.
Now a Microsoft account is a separate identity from an Azure AD account
because Microsoft accounts have been around for many,
many, many years.
They've gone through so many different names.
For a long time, they were called Windows Live IDs,
but now because the new Microsoft plays well with
other vendors and other products,
it's just generically known as a Microsoft account.
So what happens,
if you put in your Microsoft account credentials here
at the Azure portal sign-in page,
you'll actually see the browser redirect as you see here.
This is that federation.
Basically,
what's happening is that Azure recognizes that there's somebody knocking on
the door with not a native Azure Active Directory account,
but from another service.
Now that other service technically could be anywhere, you know.
You might log into Hootsuite using your twitter ID,
or you might log into Concur using a LinkedIn account.
Those are just examples that popped off the top of my head.
They all deal with federated trust that's configured behind the
scenes between those two different environments.
So in this environment we're brought back to live.
com, which is where Microsoft maintains its Microsoft account database,
and you are asked to provide credentials here in the browser.
If you're doing a hybrid cloud, there's ways around this,
like I said, to make it totally SSO,
but we authenticate once to Microsoft account,
and then we're passed forward into Azure. I hope that that makes some semblance of sense.